# Interview Strategies 1

Practice interview for a Full Stack Web Developer position.

## 1. What is the most influential book or blog post you've read regarding web development?

A web development book that has been very influential in my development career is a book series on JavaScript called, “You-Don’t-Know-JS” by Kyle Simpson. I was told to check this series out and I am glad that I did. My understanding of JavaScript has greatly improved just from reading this series. These books really explain the how and why of JavaScript. In addition, I also check out speckyboy.com, a web development blog, for popular articles on web design. This site provides me with new ideas, responsive templates, coding snippets, and video tutorials.

## 2. Tell me about a web application you have build. Why did you choose to build it? What did you learn? What challenges did you face and how did you overcome them?

I built an application called San Francisco Attractions which displays a Google map of San Francisco, 15 preset markers, a filter menu, and a places search. My application incorporates the Google Maps JavaScript API and a Foursquare API. When a marker is clicked by the user an info window pops up with the Foursquare location name, rating, likes and a Google Street View image.

I created this application as part of the Udacity Full Stack Web Developer Nanodegree, however, I am glad I had the opportunity to create it. This was definitely the most challenging project I’ve created. I learned so much in creating this application. I learned how to use the Google Maps JavaScript and Foursquare APIs. I learned how to customize markers, style the Google map, and retrieve Google street view imagery of a location. I also learned how to make an AJAX request as well as how to parse through the JSON data. The biggest challenge that I faced in making this app was in making the AJAX request and parsing through the data in order to get the specific information I needed. I overcame this by reading the documentation, running console logs, and using the developer tools in Google Chrome.

## 3. Write a function in Python that takes a list of strings and returns a single string that is an HTML unordered list `(<ul>...</ul>)` of those strings. You should include a brief explanation of your code. Then, what would you have to consider if the original list was provided by user input?

**See _q3.py_ for the answer and a brief explanation to this question.**

## 4. List 2-3 attacks that web application are vulnerable to. How do these attacks work? How can we prevent those attacks?

One attack that a web application may face is an injection. Injection attacks include calls to the operating system, the use of external programs via shell commands, as well as calls to backend databases. A way to protect against this is by carefully validating the data and making sure it does not contain any malicious content. Another protection would be to ensure the web application runs with only the privileges that it absolutely needs to perform its function. An example of this would be to never run the web server as root; otherwise, an attack may abuse these admin privileges.

A second attack that a web application may face is cross-site request forgery.  This attack allows attackers to trick users into performing actions without their knowledge and is generally used with social engineering.  A CSRF attack specifically targets state-changing requests. This attack can force a user to transfer funds, change their email, or even compromise the entire application if the user has an administrative account. A good way to prevent this sort of attack is by using a CSRF token. A CSRF token is unique per session and is generated by a secure random number generator. If the CSRF token fails validation, the server rejects the requested action.

A third attack that a web application may face is cross-site scripting. This is the most prevalent web application security flaw. An attacker can execute scripts in a victim’s internet browser to hijack user sessions, deface a website, or insert hostile content. A proven way to prevent this sort of attack is to properly escape all untrusted data based on the HTML context that the data will be placed into. Sanitation libraries like OWASP AntiSamy are also good tools to prevent XSS. 

## 5. He is some starter code for a Flask Web Application. Expand on that and include a route that simulates rolling two dice and returns the result in JSON. You should include a brief explanation of your code.

'''from flask import Flask
app = Flask(__name__)

import json
import random

@app.route('/')
def hello_world():
 return 'Hello World!'

if __name__ == '__main__':
 app.debug = True
 app.run()'''

**See _q5.py_ for the answer and a brief explanation to this question.**

## 6. If you were to start your full-stack developer position today, what would be your goals a year from now?

If I started my full-stack developer position today my first goal would be to master my current front-end and back-end skills.I feel very confident in my current abilities but I believe there is always room for improvement. Another one of my goals is to learn another framework, like Angular. I am currently building an Angular 2 application for a small side company that I started and I am having so much fun doing it. I really enjoy the challenge of building something new. I get the opportunity to learn about Angular as well as improve my developing skills. I would also like to learn more about network security, more specifically cryptography. I took a course in college and immediately became fascinated with the different types of encryption, cryptanalysis, and Steganography.





